[Music]
twelve short riddles you need to solve
to stay alive some of us are adventurous
and that we want to explore the world
others get a high from risks taking
their quest for adventure to the extreme
what would you do if you were caught in
a life-threatening situation take a look
as we go through different survival
scenarios before we start click that red
button to subscribe to our channel and
snuggle up with us on the bright side of
life and survival one you are outside
during a tornado and there's no shelter
in sight
what's your course of action answer if
you are outside during a tornado finding
an underground shelter or solid building
is ideal if that's impossible
lie flat and facedown on the lowest
ground you can find protect the back of
your head with your arms as a rule you
should also try to steer clear of cars
and trees too a big ferocious dog has
backed you into a corner
his eyes locked on yours what would you
do
[Music]
answer even though your instincts might
be telling you to run as fast as you can
the last thing you should do is run
panic or make loud noises keep as still
as possible with the side of your body
facing the door while making sure to
avoid direct eye contact say no in a
deep unwavering voice keep your elbows
up and in and slowly raise your hands to
cover your neck if the dog decides to
charge you believe it or not it's
important to stand still a backpack or
jacket can act as a good shield if you
get knocked down
hurling into a ball is your best defense
just remember to ball your hands into
fists to protect your fingers and use
your fists and arms to cover your ears
and neck 3 you are stranded in the
desert how are you going to make it out
[Music]
answer the extreme backdrop of the
desert can be tricky for any kind of
survival situations and the animals
living there are highly adapted to its
climate being naive and not obeying the
rules of the desert can make your
chances of escaping the scenario alive
very slim here's what you need to
remember know where and how to find
water and food the best sources for food
are dried-up river beds which might
still hide water beneath the surface
morning dew rain water and cactus pulp
don't eat food unless you have water as
it can further dehydrate you know when
to trap its best to travel during sunset
at night and in the early morning no
your predators you won't be the only one
active at night which means you'll
probably have more than one encounter
with potential predators the desert
predators you need to be aware of our
Bobcats mountain lions and coyotes
scorpions and brown recluse spiders are
also present in
Darrius get rescued any reflective
surface like a mirror or smartphone can
be used to signal planes as they fly
over you for speaking like being lost
now instead of the air at heat of the
desert you're lost in sub-zero
temperatures far away from civilization
wearing a jacket that isn't nearly warm
enough what do you do answer your
biggest threat is hypothermia
hypothermia happens when your core body
temperature drops from 98.6 degrees to
95 degrees it's technically the state in
which your organs start to drop in
temperature the first signs are
shivering and clumsiness then the
shivering stops look Largey sets in and
your speech gets slurred how can you
avoid it start doing jumping jacks to
get your heart rate up try to start a
fire ASAP and monitor your vital signs
breathing and pulse you can also use
skin-to-skin contact to warm up and one
slightly counterintuitive thing to
remember when faced with these
conditions even if you are a bit
dehydrated never eat snow it can
actually speed up the process of
hypothermia 5 you decide to take a
beautiful hike at the closest National
Park but you're not an avid hiker you
get lost on your way back or was it your
way there it's hard to tell at this
point
[Music]
answer if you've lost your way the best
way to be spotted by others out hiking
or even aircraft is a smoke signal start
by building a fire having as much green
grass and foliage as you can find this
will help your fire produce a thick
white smoke next take your sleeping bag
or blanket and get it wet place it over
the fire to stop the smoke from rising
once it's stopped
pull your blanket off to let smoke float
into the air again as one big puff this
is your first smoke signal says more
hiking you're on a beautiful trail all
of a sudden you get bitten by a snake
what are your priorities
[Music]
answer according to the department of
wildlife ecology and conservation at the
University of Florida only about one in
50 million people will die of a snake
bite annually this works out to be five
to six meet a luyties per year but that
doesn't mean you shouldn't work if
you've been bitten here's what you need
to do keep the bite site at or below
heart level let it bleed for 30 seconds
before cleaning avoid tourniquets the
venom that is concentrated in one spot
can be damaging if you can't take a
photo at least try to remember exactly
what the snake looks like 7 you're
staying at a friend's log cabin for a
much-needed long weekend you are sitting
outside gazing at the mountains in your
Adirondack chair and you suddenly
realize you're not alone there's a
mountain lion about 50 yards away headed
straight for you what do you do
[Music]
answer if you find yourself in the same
place as one of these predators there
are three things you should remember to
do one stay calm to stand your ground
and claim your territory three make
yourself look as large as possible by
putting your arms in the air if the
animal continues walking toward you try
some intimidation tactics like waving
your arms screaming or even throwing
things at it
these cats might be big but they're
easily chased away eight your body
boarding in the ocean and feel something
brush up against your legs spoiler alert
it's not seaweed it's a sharp what's
your plan of action
[Music]
answer first of all don't panic the
excitement and stimulation of having
someone or something pick and splash
around in the water thrills the shark
even more this might sound weird but
sharks are ambush predators who like to
sneak up on their prey if they realize
that you can see them coming
they might get turned off and swim away
try to swim backward to safety always
keeping your face toward the shark if
that fails aim for sensitive parts like
the gills and dies 9 you fall asleep on
your raft in the ocean and wake up to
find yourself so far out to sea that you
can no longer see land how will you keep
calm and find your way back to land
[Music]
answer if you're stuck at sea there are
a few things to keep in mind collect
rainwater by any means possible even by
running out your t-shirt be wary of
shark attacks if you notice a shark
stalking your raft or boat give it a
good smack to the gills nose or eyes
with a stick or any other blunt object
you have with you try to find food small
fish love congregating under rats which
will make your fishing expedition much
easier look out for land there are three
indicators that land is nearby
light-colored water
visible wave patterns and the presence
of Birds Ted you're skiing with a friend
taking in some epic views and braving
the blackest of black diamonds the next
then you know you feel a rumble and find
yourself in the middle of a huge
avalanche is there any way to survive
this answer this massive onslaught of
snow can totally screw up your senses
and disorient you try to let go of your
heavy equipment but not your survival
gear swim through the snow to get to the
surface hold on to something stationary
like a tree if you're stuck under the
snow create an air pocket by holding a
hand up to your mouth 11 on your solo
salmon fishing expedition you meet your
match of bear while they might also be
interested in fishing for salmon you're
not going to be able to use common
ground to charm them as they see you as
a threat how do you get away unscathed
[Music]
answer the old advice about playing dead
is kind of a misnomer it only works if
the bear is surprised by you
not if it's aggressively charging you or
dragging you around in this instance
your best bet is to attack sensitive
areas like its eyes or you can try to
distract it by throwing something so you
can run in the other direction so well
your best friend talks you into going
skydiving for your birthday you're a
total thrill seeker so you're all-in on
this idea three two one jump you are
flying through the air taking in the
amazing views when your instructor tells
you that it's time to pull your chute
and it doesn't work what now
[Music]
answer free-falling at 5,000 feet up in
the air leaves no room for guesswork the
best that you can do is spread your
limbs out and lead with your chest
this will increase friction against the
wind aim for soft looking things like
hay or bushes but not water hitting
water at the speed you are going is
exactly like hitting concrete try to
land feet first with your knees relaxed
this will definitely hurt but your
chances of survival are better than if
you land it on your head here's a bonus
question for you you are trapped in a
house and have to choose between three
tanks to get into in order to get out to
safety the first is of that full of acid
the second has raging fires and the
third has six sharks that haven't eaten
in six months which do you choose
answer if you chose the sharks your
instincts are spot on if the Sharks
haven't eaten in six months they would
all be dead allowing you to swim to
safety do you have any survival tips to
share with us tell us in the comments
below don't forget to give this video a
like share with your friends and click
subscribe to stay on the bright side of
life
[Music]